Dyeison Antonow graduated as pharmacist in 2003 from the Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul Brazil after scientific training in medicinal chemistry at Universidade de la República Uruguay and completing his clinical training in radiopharmeuticals and nuclear medicine at Santa Rita Hospital in Porto Alegre-Brazil. He then moved to the University of London (UK) to complete his PhD in organic chemistry on the synthesis of DNA-interactive agents and NMR-based structural investigations of drug-DNA adducts. In 2008, he took up a position as a Cancer Research UK Research Fellow working on the discovery of novel inhibitors of protein-protein interactions for cancer chemotherapy. D. Antonow has also worked as a consultant for the biotech company Spirogen Ltd (now MedImmune, LLC AstraZeneca) on the development of novel DNA-targeted anticancer drugs and Antibody Drug-Conjugates (ADCs). During the last thirteen years he has worked in a number of research-related projects that provided him with a very interdisciplinary experience in key aspects of drug discovery and development, including oncology agents for the biotechnology/pharmaceutical industry. His experience involved clinical studies, medicinal chemistry, molecular biology, computational chemistry, NMR-based structural investigations, IP-protection, and exposure to the commercial aspects of his research, including independent consultancies, management, legal and regulatory aspects, and market competitiveness. D Antonow has also been keeping an focussed interest in fragment-based drug discovery and target-guided synthesis as radically innovative fields for the discovery of new therapeutics. More recently, upon moving back to South America at the end of 2011, D. Antonow has been designated by the Brazilian National Cancer Institute (INCA) and by the Ministry of Health (MS) to structure, implement and spearhead a National Program on Oncology Drug Development (REDEFAC), which is intended to support product development and innovation against cancer for the Brazilian National Health System (SUS). In February 2014, D. Antonow was appointed Associate Professor at the Faculty of Medicine at PUCRS where he is carrying on research projects at the Biomedical Research Institute (IPB). (Texto informado pelo autor)