received his B.Sc. degree in Computer Science(CS) from the Federal University of Pará (UFPa), Brazil, in 1996 and M.Sc. and Ph.D. in CS from the Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS), Brazil, in 1999 and 2003, respectively. He is a CNPq Productivity Fellow (Brazilian National Council for Scientific and Technological Development) for his contribution to Brazilian Scientific Progress. In 2005, he became Professor at UFRGS and nowadays, Head of the Theoretical Informatics Department at Informatics Institute (UFRGS) and Leader of Phi Robotics Research Group at UFRGS (http://www.inf.ufrgs.br/phi-group/). UFRGS is one of the most important universities in Latin America (in 2012, it was ranked best university in Brazil by the Brazilian Ministry of Education). In particular, in the Informatics Institute, the Undergraduate Programs are first-ranked, while the Graduated Programs are among the top-five in Brazil. Edson has active participation in the community, as a member of IEEE, IEEE RAS (Robotics and Automation Society) and IEEE SA (Standards Association), and is currently co-chair of the IEEE RAS working group for Standard for Ontologies for Robotics and Automation (IEEE RAS WG ORA) (http://www.ieee-ras.org/industry-government/standards) and Advisory Board Member of IEEE RAS Special Interest Group on Humanitarian Technology (IEEE RAS SIGHT) (http://www.ieee.org/special_interest_group_on_humanitarian_technnology.html). Among his achievements, he was co-chair of special session entitled "Knowledge Representation and Ontologies for Robotics and Automation" at IROS 2012, co-chair of workshop on Smart Gadgets Meet Ubiquitous and Social Robots on the Web, held in ACM Ubicomp 2012, and guest editor of special issue "Ubiquitous Robotics" in Robotics and Autonomous Systems Journal/Elsevier. Furthermore, he has several publications in high-ranked journals and conferences in topics that include autonomous environment exploration, planning, simultaneous localization and mapping and ontology. He also has been serving as member of program committee and reviewer boards in several conferences and journals. (Texto informado pelo autor)