Marcos Antonio Matos graduated in Agronomy (2003) and Master Science degree (2007) in Agronomy (Department of Biosystems Engineering), both from University of Sao Paulo, "Luiz de Queiroz College of Agriculture (Esalq/USP). Currently working as Project Manager for Vigna Projetos/ Getulio Vargas Foundation. He has been working on the development of economic studies and projects for the production of food and bioenergy and business valuation / due diligence (Latin America and Africa) by analyzing efficient mechanisms to attract capital, to enable it to focus on projects with a high financial return and low perceived risk. It included a project evaluation NPV, IRR, Sensitivity Analysis, Risk Simulation, data on foreign government policies, analysis of supply and demand conditions, commercial trade relationships and market opportunities. He worked for Anglo American/Copebrás (Market Intelligence and Commercial /Sales area), Bayer S.A (Regulatory Affairs), Bunge Brasil (Institutional Relations and Sustainability) and Brazilian Cooperatives Organization (OCB). He has published 19 articles in journals and more than 40 articles in newspapers and magazines and more than 10 papers presented at conferences. Specialties Master Science in Agronomy- Biosystems Engineering. University of Sao Paulo, "Luiz de Queiroz College of Agriculture (USP/Esalq). Complementary Education: 2011: Negotiation Skills/Behavior Management Evaluation. Marcondes Consulting / Instituto Pieron; 2010: Behavior Management. Hicon Consulting and Training; 2008-11: English Course at Thomas Jefferson; 2009: Strategic Planning. Macroplan; 2008: Soybean Market. Safras Mercado; 2007: Commodity Derivatives Market BOVESPA/BMF. Especializações Master Science in Agronomy- Biosystems Engineering. University of Sao Paulo, "Luiz de Queiroz College of Agriculture (USP/Esalq). Complementary Education: 2011: Negotiation Skills/Behavior Management Evaluation. Marcondes Consulting / Instituto Pieron; 2010: Behavior Management. Hicon Consulting and Training; 2008-11: English Course at Thomas Jefferson; 2009: Strategic Planning. Macroplan; 2008: Soybean Market. Safras Mercado; 2007: Commodity Derivatives Market BOVESPA/BMF. (Texto informado pelo autor)