Richard S. Gates, Ph.D., P.E. is a Professor at the University of Illinois, Department of Agricultural and Biological Engineering where he has worked since August 2008. Previously he spent 23 years at the University of Kentucky, as Assistant, Associate and full Professor, as well as Chair of the Department of Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering. His international experiences include leading a consortium for student exchange between Illinois, Purdue University, USP-Pirassununga and Federal University of Viçosa. He is co-PI for a similar exchange program with Virginia Tech and four European Universities (UC-Dublin, Madrid Polytechnic, Agriculture University of Athens, and University of Bari, Italy). He is past leader of a US-Brazil Consortium that exchanged over forty US and Brazilian agricultural engineering students and faculty. He has conducted overseas sabbaticals in South Africa (University of Natal), Greece (Agricultural University of Athens) and Japan (Kitasato University), and engineering work for 6 months at Technion University, Haifa Israel. He is author or co-author of 121 refereed journal articles and more than 265 other publications and presentations. He has taught courses on instrumentation, environment control, structures and environment design, data acquisition and control, probability and statistics, and nonlinear optimization. His recent research and extension work involve post-harvest loss assessment, agricultural air quality baseline measurement and assessment of mitigation techniques including diet manipulation and biofiltration, and development of bioinstrumentation for measuring animal welfare. He is co-inventor of environment control technologies including economic optimization, vapor pressure deficit control, and time integrated variable control and the use of fuzzy logic for staged ventilation and heating systems, some of which are widely used. He was lead investigator on a USDA project to quantify ammonia emissions from US broiler and layer operations, and a co-PI on the first completed US-EPA Air Consent Agreement work for measuring gaseous and particulate emissions from US broiler housing. His extension activities have been focused on agricultural environment control, livestock and poultry facilities, and agricultural air quality. He is co-founder of the Kentucky Rural Energy Consortium, and has served as Trustee for the American Society for Agricultural and Biological Engineers, is a Fellow of that society, is chair of the Research Subcommittee of the United Egg Producer s Environmental Scientific panel, and is recent recipient of the ASABE Henry L. Giese Structures and Environment Award. He is a registered professional engineer (Kentucky). (Texto informado pelo autor)