Postdoctor in Clinical Pharmacology (University of California at Berkeley, CA, USA, 2012), holds a degree in Biological Sciences (1983), Degree in Dentistry (1980) Federal University of Minas Gerais (UFMG), MSc in Microbiology from UFMG and Institut National de Recherche Agronomique (INRA), Jouy-en-Josas, France (1990/1992) and Doctorate in Sciences with emphasis in Oral Pathology by UFMG (1996). A specialization in Strategic Business Management (UFMG) and Improvement in Surgery Maxillo-Facial (UFMG), in Stage Isolation and culture of gingival fibroblasts (UNICAMP-Piracicaba, São Paulo). He is Associate IV Professor of Oral Pathology and Stomatology at the Department of Clinical Pathology and Surgery, Faculty of Dentistry, UFMG since 1992. Has experience in dentistry, with emphasis in Oral Pathology, Stomatology and Microbiology, acting on the following topics: medicinal plants and propolis, oral mucosal lesions, oral microbiology, microbial lesions, inflammatory and neoplastic lesions, development of products and medicines for dental use natural-based products. It is Coordinator of the Laboratory of Microbiology, Faculty of Dentistry, UFMG and also Coordinator of the Extension Project Dental Care support to patients with cancer and irradiated head and neck FOUFMG. He was coordinator of the Research Advisory Committee (1996 2000) and Deputy Director of the School of Dentistry, UFMG (2001-2003), Director Pro Tempore of the Faculty of Dentistry (2003/2004), Deputy Director, School of Dentistry (2004/2008). He was a member of the Advisory Committee for the Selection of Research Projects for funding and grants from UFMG (1997/1999), was a member of the Ethics Committee for Animal Experimentation of UFMG (CETEA) Directs students Scientific Initiation of the Undergraduate Courses and students of the Graduate School of Dentistry. Has published papers in national and international journals and is reviewer for several scientific articles national and international journals: Brazilian Journal of Microbiology, Evidence-based Complementary and Alternative Medicine, Journal of Agricultural Extension and Rural Development, Medical Micology among others. Member of the American Chemical Society, Brazilian Society for Dental Research, Società di Italo-Latin American ethnomedicine, Federación Latino and American Apitherapy Society for Medicinal Plant and Natural Product Research. He is currently President of the Brazilian Society of Apitherapy (SBA). e-mail: vegneer2003@yahoo.com.br / facebook: Vagner Santos / Linkedin: Vagner Santos (Texto informado pelo autor)